It's a great pleasure to be here today
and introduce you guys to App Sandbox,
a feature dear to my heart and the system
that we believe is the most advanced
desktop security system in the world.
But before I do that,
you'll have to bear with me because
it's hard to appreciate just what
we're doing and how we're going about
it without understanding some of the
history that's brought us to this point.
If you think about
where we were yesterday,
a figurative yesterday,
the first virus that ever appeared
was Creeper on ARPANET in the '70s.
And since then,
it's taken 30 years until in about 2004,
the count of known malware
reached about 100,000.
And in another four years after that,
it surpassed a million.
And today,
if you talk to antivirus vendors
and people that are in the
business of tracking malware,
they're seeing tens and tens of thousands
of unique malware samples a day.
Now, thankfully, Mac users were mostly
spared from this situation,
and App Sandbox is how we'd
like to keep it that way,
but I'm getting ahead of myself.
In 2005, there was almost no data theft
malware that was spreading by email.
This phenomenon just
didn't used to exist.
There was lots of malware
spreading by email,
but it was trying to do
things to your computer,
not steal your data.
And so, sometime in 2005,
we started seeing the first examples.
The industry started seeing some
of the first examples of this.
And everyone kept their eyes peeled
because the big question in the room was,
how quickly would this grow?
And so,
this--we had the opportunity to witness
a new category of malware being created.
And by 2007,
we had--the industry was basically
registering over 5,000 different
kinds of samples of data theft
malware that was just trying to
steal user data being sent around.
And that's really sort of
shocking because the growth rate
was in the hundreds and hundreds
of percent and has kept going.
Okay.
And you would think that maybe it was
the little guys at home that were being
attacked and that if only you're serious
about protecting your networks and data,
then these attacks can do nothing.
But actually it's not true.
No one has been able to really
keep these attacks at bay.
And it's very hard to actually get a
good insight into what the situation
is for governments because they tend
to be pretty secretive about it.
But remarkably,
just before President Obama took office,
there was a government commission
organized to write a report called
a report on the cybersecurity
for the 44th presidency.
And it had key people from the military,
from government, from academia,
and the private sector.
And they were basically trying to
make some recommendations to the new
presidency about what they should
do with the cybersecurity threat.
But to me, this report is fascinating
because it's public.
All of you can download it.
And because it actually gives a rare
glimpse into some of the kinds of
attacks and some of the numbers that
the government has been experiencing.
So in 2007, as an example,
the Department of Defense,
Department of State,
Department of Homeland Security,
Department of Commerce,
and NASA all suffered what they
were called major intrusions
from unknown foreign entities,
including a compromise of
the unclassified-- email
of the Secretary of State.
And this kept going.
The Department of State has
basically gone on record as
saying that they lost terabytes of
information in these intrusions.
The Department of Homeland Security has
confirmed that the breaches
expanded to cover the TSA.
And, uh, uh, the situation at NASA was,
in fact, uh, uh, so interesting,
they've actually seen
launcher designs compromised.
They've imposed restrictions where
for several hours before a launch,
they actually just pulled the plug
on their email system entirely.
What's going on here?
This is, this is, this is not good.
Somehow, you know, if you,
if you think about other situations in
real life that have a security component,
I think of driving because that,
if you look at the statistics,
is not the safest activity.
But people don't need physics degrees
to understand how to drive cars safely.
And somehow it seems like users
need computer science degrees
to drive their computers safely.
And, you know, even that's questionable,
I, I,
because lots of computer science people
don't really understand security.
But how did we get here?
Why is this so different?
So think about where we are
with cars and car safety today.
There is, before a car can be
brought to the market,
there is basically mandatory
government-imposed crash testing to check
what the security situation looks like.
For all of the key systems involved in
controlling the engine and transmission,
basically there are redundancies
in a number of cases.
There are just backup computers that
can take over if anything goes wrong.
And there's this big understanding
that when you have a system
that's as complex and moving as
quickly as a car on the freeway,
eventually with the best engineering
things can go wrong and you need to
be prepared for that possibility.
So, seat belts and airbags, right?
Damage containment.
Even if you have the best damage
avoidance systems on the market and
systems that try to steer the car away
if they sensed an impending accident,
ultimately accidents can
still happen and when they do,
you want to have a containment
mechanism like a seat belt or an airbag.
That's not the case with where we
are today with computer security.
The game we're playing is essentially
the defenders have to protect 100%
of the system 100% of the time,
whereas an attacker only
needs one breach at one time.
And when they do that,
because the industry has been
emphasizing damage prevention
but not really containment,
what happens is that one breach
at that one time means that it's
game over and the attacker wins.
.
And we've done some amazing progress,
mind you,
with damage prevention mechanisms,
but the containment aspect has not
received nearly as much attention.
So here is--if you stop and
really think about this hard,
here is what I'm going to be referring
to as the unfortunate assumption,
not just a unfortunate assumption,
that has dominated desktop
security for decades.
And the assumption is this:
every program that a user runs should run
with the full privileges of that user.
Or if you want to put it differently,
we should isolate different users on
a system but we should not isolate
different programs by the same user.
And this assumption
is really unfortunate.
And if you in fact try to
figure out where it came from,
it's kind of a fascinating
exercise because
Uh, this model,
which was inherited in most modern
operating systems from Unix,
which came out in 1971,
When--when
Richard Thompson basically said,
"Well, the program is the user, so,
you know,
we shouldn't really distinguish there,"
1971 was seven years before we ever had
an international packet switch network.
It was 12 years before
we ever had a TCP/IP,
wide area network, and it was 20 years
before we ever had a Web.
And today,
that assumption is 40 years old.
What did untrusted code mean in 1971?
The words had no meaning because if
you wanted to run code on a computer,
you have to physically bring it to
that computer on a punch card or later
a piece of magnetic tape and run it.
Today, every time you browse a website,
you're executing untrusted code.
That is 40 years of
We have this unfortunate assumption in
the industry about desktop security that
literally predates personal computing.
It is a model of sticks and
stones that we're trying to use
to defend ourselves today and
We need something better.
We need a way to contain damage
when it happens regardless of
ultimately why it happened.
And not even just for malicious attacks,
because even though that's what's usually
at the forefront of all of our minds,
you know,
programs can just sometimes run amok.
There can be unintentional,
perfectly benign coding errors
and misbehavior in programs that
can still have really bad effects.
And we need a way to contain the
damage that such programs can do.
So, how do we make that better wheel?
Well, we have a lot of experience
in the last 20 years as an
industry about what doesn't work.
And we know chiefly that the unfortunate
assumption of all programs running with
the full user privilege doesn't work.
We also know that
security UI doesn't work,
and there's this great quote in politics,
which is, "If you're explaining,
you're losing." And this is true
of security interfaces as well.
If you have to explain to
the user how to be secure,
you're losing.
Here's what we show users day in
and day out as an industry and
expect them to do the right thing.
We're basically conditioning our
users to ignore all the security that
we're trying to put in front of them.
And thus far, the conditioning has
been very successful.
Imagine, if you will,
that you are zipping along at
The speed limit down one on one and
there's a car that starts swerving
and you're about to hit them and in
your last moments before the impact,
your eyes glance across the entertainment
console where there's a cheery question,
"Hey, would you like us to
deploy that airbag now?
Would that be okay with
you?" This is crazy.
We can't keep doing this.
But we've also learned
some things that do work.
And chief among them is something
called the principle of least privilege,
also known as the principle
of least authority,
which is the idea that
when building systems,
they should have no more
privilege than the amount they
need to get their work done.
In other words,
there shouldn't be any ambient
privilege that they get just because,
for instance,
they're being run by a particular user.
Privilege should match what systems do
and there should not be any more of it.
So it's interesting because
this--it took us some time to
sort of reach this understanding.
The PDP-10 actually had what was called
a high-low memory segment system,
which meant that the operating system
would run independently from user code.
But the feature just
wasn't in demand because,
you know, the PDPs were giant computers
used by highly trained people.
And for the most part,
this didn't seem very valuable,
but it cost money.
So in the PDP-1170, the program was gone.
And Dennis Ritchie likes to tell
the story how if you were sitting
in a computer lab and everyone
was using the same PDP-11,
it was considered absolutely necessary as
a courtesy to others that if you compile
a program and you're about to run it,
you had to yell, "A.out!"
And then wait about a minute
until everyone saved their work
so you could run your program,
because once you ran your program,
it could potentially stomp
over all over the user,
uh, the operating system and just,
you know, kill everyone's session.
So,
We did learn this lesson eventually
as an industry and we started
separating ever more privilege.
We separated kernel land and user land.
We separated user land into actually
having different little user
lands for each user on the system.
And we've--basically the state of
the art in desktop operating systems
around the time that Mac OS X,
when this NT came out,
had sort of fully caught up
with this idea that at least
when it comes to memory,
we should actually have
some real protection there.
And this story of iterations of
less and less privilege is one
that repeats over the decades.
So on x86,
we actually have CPU rings in hardware,
and we have protected memory,
and we have separated users,
and we have processes that are separated,
and processes can't look
at each other's memory.
A series of iterations
of reduced privilege
That once we hit the process boundary,
we stopped.
In other words, today,
there's really no way to,
within a single process,
deliver different bits of privilege
to different parts of that process.
Really no mainstream computer operating
system supports anything like that.
And so this is-- what this means is that
the unfortunate assumption still holds.
We still have all the users'
programs running with the
full privileges of that user.
And the reason this is bad obviously
is because programs are growing.
It means that eventually different
parts of a single program need
different bits of privilege.
But because there's no subdivision
of privilege within a process,
ultimately if you have to give any part
of a program some amount of privilege,
really the entire program has it.
And this should be clear to most of you,
but it's easy to think through why
it's impossible to try and separate
out privilege within a single process.
Because if you're using an
unmanaged language like C,
you can literally-- you can literally
construct pointers to arbitrary
parts of the memory space and go do
whatever you want in that memory space.
So that was yesterday.
Where are we today?
The Internet really changed the game
when it comes to acquiring software.
We have tons and tons of software being
written by tons and tons of vendors.
It's become easier than ever before
for computer users to actually
download programs and run them.
And computers have gradually
come to be almost always on
And so the challenge of the security
industry has really become trying to
isolate data between different programs
rather than trying to keep different
users on the same machine isolated.
In fact, a large number of machines
only ever have one user.
So here is the challenge
that we have with Mac OS.
It is an incredibly powerful,
incredibly rich platform.
And it's a platform that has
a user experience that is
centered around the file system.
When you think about
how you use your Mac,
you think about using Definder
to find your documents,
to find your data,
and then you open those documents
in whichever application you
choose and you work with them.
And apps have always relied on running
with the full privilege of the user.
And because there has not been
a damage containment mechanism,
it meant that you
When you were writing
apps for our platform,
could not tell us what those apps
were really intended to do in some
kind of machine readable form so that
the operating system could construct
a last line of defense and make
sure that if something goes really,
really wrong,
that the operating system can catch you.
So if you imagine the world's most boring
application called Watch Grass Grow,
This application,
which really shouldn't be able to
do anything on your computer except
maybe showing some grass growing,
can actually,
if it was somehow to become exploited,
steal all of your email
and send it to Croatia,
which, by the way,
is scary because I'm Croatian,
so take it from me.
Here's the reality
we're up against folks.
We're building really complex systems.
They always have vulnerabilities,
and complexity is a tide that thus far,
the entirety of the computer industry
has not been successful in turning.
Complexity is only growing.
It's not getting smaller,
and we're at the point already where
a single buffer overflow somewhere in
your code really ruins your user's day.
And I don't necessarily
even mean your code,
because today,
when you write an application,
you're linking against all
the frameworks you're linking
against and all the libraries.
Potentially, your actual code is just the
tip of the iceberg of the
code that's actually running,
and the single buffer overflow
anywhere in any of that code is
enough to ruin your user's day.
And there is simply no limit
on how that day can be ruined.
There is really no limit on the kind
of damage that Watch Grass Grow can
do if it becomes exploited.
So I want to drive this
point home because I really
think it's pretty remarkable.
So in 1977 was the first time that a U.S.
automaker, General Motors,
put in a piece of electronics into a car.
It was an electronic spark plug
controller on the Oldsmobile Tornado.
It was a little,
purpose-built controller that
really could do only one thing,
and that was time,
electronic spark plugs, and that was it.
And they like this idea so much
that actually just four years later,
there were up to about 50,000
lines of code running different
microprocessors in the cars that
they were putting on the market.
If you fast-forward a bit, in 2005,
the F-22 Raptor fighter plane
still in service today and a key
flown asset of the US Air Force is
running about 1.7 million lines
of code just for core avionics,
so really the mission-critical software.
And the Joint Strike Fighter project
that's sort of supposed to be
completed last year was up to
about 6 million lines of code.
This was, I think,
about mid-2009 that they had this figure.
So I want you to look at this
graph and sort of the magnitudes
of difference because there's
a punchline to this graph,
which is that if you buy a car today--
There's about 100 million
lines of code in it.
There's between 30 and 100
processors that total up to
about 100 million lines of code.
I hope all of you will be
enjoying your drive home.
This situation can't keep going.
And in very recent times,
in the last few months,
I'm sure you've all heard,
there's been a string of high-profile
breaches and compromises across a number
of different companies and the industry.
And
The kind of pain this is creating
is not just for those companies
that are being breached,
but it's personal information
of users that's being exposed,
leading to identity fraud,
financial fraud.
Basically, it's users that are
hurting in terms of time,
in terms of money, and really,
in terms of
Their ability to enjoy technology,
because they're learning very
quickly that through just innocuous
use of these things they like,
they may be opening themselves
up to nightmares like trying to
recover your identity after it's
been compromised or having money
stolen from your bank account.
We know that there is a better
model for doing security,
and here it is.
If you think about how iOS works,
there's been a Sandbox from
day one with a very simple,
very understandable set of rules.
Applications on iOS cannot
touch other applications.
They cannot touch the system,
which means that if there
are mistakes in programming,
if there are exploits that
happen in these applications,
the damage,
the overall damage to the user
and their device is quite limited.
And there's a nice side benefit,
it also becomes very easy to uninstall
applications because applications are
isolated into their little containers,
which are their own little spaces
where they get to put their data.
And because this story is
so easy to understand and
has such powerful benefits,
the Sandbox on iOS has really
become a key element of the
overall security picture.
The way this is implemented thus
far has been entire-- almost
entirely through private interfaces.
So interfaces that have not
been available to developers.
And in iOS, there's never been a need
to make them available.
But basically,
there's a kernel enforcement mechanism
called Sandbox that can gate a number of
different things that the programs do,
especially as it relates to
acquiring system resources.
And we've used this to great
effect obviously in iOS,
but also with demons and
system software on Mac OS.
But there is a problem,
maybe more than one.
To use Sandbox,
you have to know ahead of time what
resources an application is going to want
to use so that you can create a security
policy that the kernel can then enforce.
And if you think about iOS again,
this is pretty easy to do because
applications are isolated in their own
containers and aren't expected to be able
to go and trudge around the file system.
What's more,
Sandbox is just an enforcement mechanism.
It doesn't really make it any easier
for developers that want to be able
to take bits of privilege from their
program and somehow separate it out so
that we don't have this issue where all
the privilege is available to programs.
So the bottom line is,
even though we have what we believe
is a fantastic model in iOS,
it simply wasn't possible for
us to take it wholesale and
somehow port it to Mac OS.
We have to do more.
And it's against that
backdrop that I want to tell
you about App Sandbox today.
The App Sandbox is a mechanism
to aid in writing and securing
graphical applications on Mac OS X.
It is a mechanism that was
designed especially with
the Mac App Store in mind.
And it is a damage containment mechanism.
It is a mechanism that tries to
limit the kind of exposure that a
user's data has in the event that
an application has become exploited
or that there is an unintentional
coding error or other misbehavior.
The way App Sandbox does this is
by trying to control a number of
features of the operating system,
such as access to the file
system and the network,
with the goal of making
it very hard for exploited
applications to be able to steal,
corrupt, or delete user data.
App Sandbox uses the same
sandbox mechanism as iOS for
enforcement in the kernel,
but adds to it a number of
custom-tailored changes at almost
every level of Mac OS to be able to
provide a great security experience.
When we built App Sandbox,
we had a number of design goals in mind.
And
Knowing that popping up security
UI is simply not an option,
One of the key design goals was
to try and find a way for the
user's intent to somehow directly
translate to security policy.
If you only knew what the user was
trying to do at any given time,
You could create a perfect
security policy around that.
But of course,
we don't have mind reading machines yet.
We wanted to make it really easy
for you guys to have a technology
that you can use to make it
so that if your application
becomes the one that's exploited,
that the damage it can
do is really limited.
And finally,
and this is--this should be obvious,
but it sort of bears repeating,
we didn't set out to create
a perfect security mechanism,
a silver bullet to end all
security problems of all time.
No, we are not trying to do that,
but we did set out to create a mechanism
that would significantly elevate the bar
for attackers that are trying to take
advantage of applications on Mac OS.
Interestingly,
when we sort of enumerated these design
goals and started building App Sandbox,
we realized that
If you look at what's prohibited
by the Mac App Store policy today
for submissions to the store,
it turns out that App Sandbox
adds enforcement for a lot of these
already existing restrictions.
So in some ways,
it's--it's putting teeth behind
restrictions that already exist and you
shouldn't--you shouldn't think that this
will somehow translate to completely new,
completely draconian restrictions.
These restrictions were already there.
Those of you that have submitted
to the Mac App Store have already
followed them and so AppSandbox is
simply a way of enforcing some of those
restrictions on a technical level.
Here are the key ideas.
We want you, when you write your app,
to tell us what your app is supposed
to be able to do to get its job done.
We're then going to take your app and put
it in a container exactly like on iOS,
meaning you're going to get your
own scratch space for all of your
preferences and caches and other
things that are not user documents,
that are just your application's data.
And we're going to take that container
and make it really only available to
your app via your app's code identity.
So there are no namespace collisions
if two applications happen to
somehow have the same name.
No, really, your container is your own.
And for the tricky part,
when it comes to actually
accessing a user's documents,
we're going to put control
of that in the user's hands.
We're going to make it so only
that when a user chooses to
open a document in your app,
does your app receive the
ability to open that document.
And that, that kind of access is not
actually going to persist across
relaunches of your application.
But we also wanted to do this
in a way that the special cases
that we all know and love,
the Recent Items menu and drag and drop,
should just automatically work.
So the system we built
has five key components,
and I'm going to lead you
briefly through all of them.
I already mentioned that you're going
to be telling us what your application
is supposed to be able to do.
And the way you're going to do that
is through what we call entitlements.
The entitlements that you bind into
your application's code signature
tell Mac OS what it is that your
application is supposed to be able to do.
The entitlements are
just a property list.
This is not deep magic.
And in fact,
Xcode lets you edit these options
graphically so you don't even
need to know if you don't want
to that it's backed by a plist.
When you go to, uh, uh,
to-to look at your, uh, targets in Xcode,
you'll simply notice
that on the summary page,
you can turn on application sandboxing,
um, and choose which entitlements you'd
like to give your application.
The entitlements themselves are really,
really simple, and even though
We're not showing them to end users.
We really want them to be so
simple that a user could understand
them if we did show them.
So if you--if you keep
that guideline in mind,
an end user should really be
able to totally understand
what these entitlements mean,
and if it's any more complex than that,
it probably shouldn't be an entitlement,
you'll realize that it's quite
different from some other security
models that you may be thinking of,
like Androids.
Android has hundreds of permissions
that you can choose for applications.
We have fewer than 15
entitlements total in Lion.
In fact, here they are.
This is it.
You're looking at all of the
entitlements that are made available.
But I'll talk more about that
later and especially in the
session immediately after this one.
Let's progress and talk about containers.
I already mentioned that, like on iOS,
we're going to,
when you opt into App Sandbox,
give your application its own scratch
space bound to your application's
code identity and make your
application the king of that domain.
And this is very simple.
There is no magic to containers.
It's actually--we set two
environment variables and that's it.
And setting these two environment
variables is enough to make it so
that every Apple API that you call
and ask for either the user's home
directory or different subfolders
of the diff--of the user's home
directory like a library or a,
you know, a computer.
And you can use this to do this.
So, what we're going to do is
we're going to use the app,
the app, the app, the app, the app.
And we're going to use this
to create a container for the
If the application now tries to directly
call the open system call with a path
to the user's real home directory,
that access is just gonna
be denied by the Sandbox.
On the other hand,
if you call an Apple API like
in its home directory,
the result you're actually going to get
out of that is within the container.
It is the container.
And of course,
the container is within the Sandbox
so your application can read and write
and happily do what it wanted to do.
I already mentioned that we
use the kernel enforcement
mechanism from iOS called Sandbox.
By default,
it's really only the container
and certain system locations
that your application can access.
The kernel will be enforcing that
normally your application cannot get
any access to the user's real home
directory aside from your container.
So, I hear you ask,
how is my application going to get at an
actual document that the user has then?
Okay,
I didn't actually hear anyone asking,
but I thought it would
be a good transition.
We built a mechanism called PowerBox.
that tries to put this idea of
translating user intent into
security policy in practice.
Here's how it works.
If you think about the
Cocoa Open and Save panels,
We've all seen them a million
times and probably not stopped to
pause to reflect deeply on them,
but they're actually pretty remarkable
because they're such an unambiguous,
overt declaration of user
intent as any you can find.
If you have an open panel and the
user chose some files in that panel,
the user is unequivocally saying,
"I want this application to open the
files I just chose and no other."
So why don't we make it that way?
Why don't we make it that it's really
only the files that a user chose in an
open or a safe panel that are available
to the application that showed the panel?
So that's what we did.
And to do that, we have a trusted system
mediator called PowerBox.
And I'll show you how this works.
Here's your application that
links against the App Kit.
We're going to put it in a Sandbox.
Your application is going
to call the NSOpenPanel.
Now,
It so happens that if AppKit tried
going to the real tilde documents
folder that the user has,
the Sandbox would deny the access.
This simply would not work.
But instead, AppKit detects that you're
running inside an App Sandbox,
and instead of drawing the open
panel from within your application,
it actually reaches out to this trusted
system mediator called PowerBox.
PowerBox also links against AppKit,
but it's not in the Sandbox.
And so it actually has the ability
to access the user's documents.
So it's PowerBox that will
actually draw an open panel
on your application's behalf.
And because of some fantastic
work that's gone into this,
neither you nor the user will
ever know that it's another
process doing the drawing.
The panel looks the same,
it behaves the same,
it is indistinguishable from
being drawn by your application.
But then, and here's the key part,
it's only the files and directories
that the user selects in this panel
that are sent back into your sandbox
and made available to your application.
Finally, I want to mention a system
called XPC Services.
We talked about how the,
the iterations of,
of reduction of privilege sort of
stopped at the process boundary.
And today, if you have a process,
you really can't somehow subdivide
privilege within that process.
Well, we wanted to make it much
easier to divide privilege.
And we decided not to do it
by finding a way to subdivide
privilege within one process,
but instead to make it really,
really easy to break applications
up into different processes that
carry different levels of privilege.
So XPC services are a
system that lets us do this.
They're a mechanism by which you
can take parts of your application,
create a separate binary for
that part of the application,
put that binary directly
into your main app's bundle,
And XPC, which is the new inter-process
communication layer
that we added in Lion,
will actually manage the lifecycle
of you talking to these parts of
the application entirely for you.
This means you don't have
to install these services,
you don't have to set up launch
DEP lists to get the service started.
No, it's enough that the XPC services
are in your app bundle.
And as soon as you try talking
to them from your application,
they will be spun up and made available
only to your application and no other.
Which means that you no longer
have to write special code
in your helper's checking,
whether it's your application that's
trying to talk to them and doing
the security checking on your own.
No, all of this has managed for you.
Incredibly simple to take parts of the
application that need different bits
of privilege from the main app and
spin them out into different processes.
So that's a lot to take in,
and I thought it would be a good,
a good way to tie it all
together by actually picking
an actual application and,
you know, putting it in the application
Uh, uh, telling you what this looks like.
So, I'm sure most of you
are familiar with Adium.
It's a, uh, third-party, open source, uh,
instant messaging client.
Very popular on Mac OS,
very full feature,
tries to be a good citizen,
uses a lot of platform
functionality on Mac OS.
And the main application is
about 250 files of source,
uh, about 75,000 lines.
Now, this is not counting, um,
any of their libraries or
any of their frameworks.
Uh, this is really adjust the main app.
Here's what we're going to do.
Here's the simple process
we're going to follow.
We're going to pick some entitlements
that we think are appropriate for Addium.
And we're going to build it.
The entitlements will get
signed into the code signature.
We're going to run it and check that it's
now really running under App Sandbox.
And then we're going to see if the
Sandbox system logs violations,
things that Adium tried doing
but that the Sandbox mechanism
prevented it from doing.
So here's my pick of some of the
initial entitlements we want.
The main one is the app
sandbox entitlement,
which actually opts it
into an app sandbox.
We want Addium to be able
to access our address book,
because it wants to be able to show
names for people on our buddy list.
We want it to be able to both read
and write files that the user selects,
going to the trusted
open and save panels,
because we want to be able
to receive files from buddies
and send them to buddies.
And because Addium needs to be able to
receive files from the outside world,
we have to make sure that it
can act as a network server and
receive incoming connections.
So here is a, I hope, yeah,
I guess you can see that pretty well.
Here is what this looks like in Xcode.
I just picked the addium, um, uh, uh,
target.
And you can see that we just have this
nice drop-down with entitlements where
I picked enabling App Sandbox and
allowing incoming network connections
and allowing address book access.
And that's it.
And in fact, if I,
if I didn't know that there
was a P-list backing this,
it wouldn't matter.
I just clicked some check
boxes and I was ready to go.
So now, I'm going to build and run this.
And check whether Adium is really
running on their Nav Sandbox.
And you can do that by
starting up Activity Monitor.
In the View menu, there's a column you
can add called Sandbox.
And you can check here, in our case,
that Adium is showing up as yes.
Yes, it really is sandboxed.
But then it ran and
no buddy list came up.
So I opened up Console app and looked
for errors logged by the sandbox daemon
to try and understand what went wrong.
And here is an error that we see.
Addium tried to make an
outbound network connection.
We see to what address and to what port.
And in fact,
there's even a button that I want to draw
your attention to called Full Report,
which if I click,
I can see a back trace of exactly where
things went wrong and where the kernel
intervened and stopped the application.
So in this case,
we see that it's in lib purple,
which is Addium's networking library.
And that the operation that was denied
is an outbound network operation,
which makes sense because even
though I gave Addium the ability
to listen for incoming connections,
I forgot to give it the ability
to also make outbound connections.
So our process here is very simple.
We're basically going to add
the network client entitlement,
which really just means adding that
one more checkbox in Xcode and hitting
build again and running the program.
And the next time I run Adium,
there are no more violations
and things are happy and it's
running under an App Sandbox.
Why does all of this matter?
Because now you have to think what
happens if Addium gets exploited.
Instant messaging clients have been
a notorious target of exploits.
And the question now is
we've done this work,
we've checked some check boxes,
what do we get for it?
And what we get for it is that
an attacker that has fully
compromised Adium on your machine,
when it's running under an app sandbox,
really has almost no ability
to do anything to your
system or your documents.
If you happened to--while Adium
was running that particular time,
if you happen to send or receive
some files to your buddies,
an attacker could get access to those.
If you haven't sent or
received files to buddies,
an attacker can't really get
at any of your documents.
And--
Really, to be able to do anything
more at this point,
an attacker needs yet another
exploit that's not an addium,
but it's probably in the
operating system itself,
usually the kernel,
to be able to really do damage
and bypass the containment that
we've actually put upon him.
Our sandbox is a damage
containment mechanism.
It is the last line of
defense against exploitation,
against programming errors.
It is not an antivirus system.
It does not try to stop things
that started out as malware.
But it tries to drive policy,
security policy, by user intent,
and it tries to make it really easy for
you to secure your applications in such
a way that if they become exploited or
if there are benign programming errors,
that the operating system can
impose a pretty strong bound on the
kind of damage that can happen to
a user's data and a user's system.
There is a guide called the Code Signing
an Application Sandboxing Guide on the
usual developer documentation sites
that goes into quite a bit of detail
about a lot of the things you heard.
And in fact,
we also made some sample code
available for you that you can see
not just App Sandbox in action,
but also an application that we
took and broke up into different
pieces with XPC services.
Uh, and we've given each of those
XPC services different entitlements
and different security properties.
Here's--here's--here's the closing.
This number that was
just unveiled yesterday,
14 billion downloads from the iOS store.
The iOS sandbox protected
every one of them.
Each of those 14 billion downloads
has run under the iOS sandbox.
And as a result,
users have enjoyed this beautiful
carefree experience where
they can pick up their iOS
devices and run an application,
download a new application,
and not worry about, "Well,
what if there's an error and
it deletes my phone?" Or,
"What if there is an exploit
that ends up happening and
everything will go wrong?" No,
users have been carefree and--
See that kid up there?
That's how your users
should feel on Mac OS.
And we hope App Sandbox will be
one step in accomplishing that.
Thank you.